My name is Youji Paolo Nicolás Takayama Constantini. I graduated in International Business Administration from the San Martin de Porres University (Peru) in 2015 and later graduated in 2021 from Kazan University in International Relations. I have always been interested in politics, but my interest in the economy emerged a few years ago, when I knew that the President of Ecuador and economist Rafael Correa, who presented and defended his ideas with great clarity, explained in simple words what the scientific (positive), the political and moral (normative) part of the economy was and also expressed that the problems of Latin America were structural probleins and not due only to our culture, corruption or other inherent problems. Since then, I have known that, if I want to propose a change and develop effective economic policies, I have to study economics to comprehensively understand the reality of a country and refute economic ideas that are more a dogma than a reality, especially in a developing country like mine, with disadvantages of all kinds that prevent a development similar to that of a developed country 

In my dissertation work, I presented the Comparison of Economic Security Policies between the United States and China during the period 2008-2019. I consider that it was a great experience and boost for my knowledge of economics. Likewise, I made a publication about the evolution of China's economic security from 1949 to the XXI century concentrating on the factors that explain Chinese economic development from a historical perspective. 

Currently. I am developing my theses whose theme is "World economic relations to ensure the principles of the Development Economy under modern conditions (on the example of Latin America)". Its central theme is development economics, a branch of economics that focuses mainly on finding practices and solutions to guide developing countries towards economic development. This topic is of interest to me because I would like to learn more about economic development and apply it in my country with the aim of reducing poverty in a country as enriched as Peru. To achieve this objective, firstly, I want to expose the principles which development economics is based on. Secondly, analyze why some countries have been successful in achieving development and others have not. Finally, compare the level of development of countries in Latin America to deternine which economic policies have been effective in the region. 

Currently I am still analyzing and writing my thesis and, every time I read more about development economics, I keep being surprised about the learning opportunities offered by this great branch of economics. I hope to continue with this capacity for wonder and be able to express it to others through my research work. Thank you for your attention.